# DSSAT Model Outputs #

Go to <<[Home page](index.md)>>

Go to next page: <<[DSSAT Model types](Model_types.md)>>

---
## User-generated outputs from DSSAT models ##

Model outputs from simulations that are triggered by Causemos users can be used for analysis, mapping, and data exploration. In the WM DSSAT configuration, four output variables are exposed: 
1.	**crop yield**, a measure of the crop productivity per unit area (kg/ha), 
2.	**crop production**, the amount of crop produced. This is the product of yield times the area harvested (t), 
3.	**amount of fertilizer applied**, the amount of elemental N in fertilizer applied for crop production (t). This is useful for when fertilizer incentives are being analyzed. 
4.	**area of crop failure**, defined as area in hectares for which the crop yield was less than 200 kg/ha (ha).

Each of these variables is computed for each geographic location, or pixel, in the geospatial simulation and for each of 36 years of historical weather data. Each value is associated with a timestamp year and a location (latitude and longitude or administrative unit). 

New model simulations can be generated by the user as needed for analyses. See [DSSAT Model Types](Model_types.md) for more information on the user controls for these simulations.

   **NOTE: Crop yields that are aggregated above the pixel level may not be shown correctly in Causemos because yield aggregations require the use of weighted averages using harvest area as a weight. This option is not yet available in Causemos.**

## Attachments from pre-run DSSAT stimulations ##

A richer set of DSSAT model outputs have been archived as attachments to the [sensitivity and climate change model types](Model_types.md). These attachments allow for deeper interpretation of model outputs for the range of user inputs, but they cannot be modified for new simulations. Additional DSSAT output variables are available only through these attachments. These additional variables require complex aggregation algorithms (e.g., they cannot be simply summed or averaged) and so they were pre-simulated, aggregated, and rendered as box plots for viewing in Causemos. The attachment graphics include all the variables listed above for the model simulations above plus two additional variables:
1.	**crop per drop**, the crop yield divided by the amount of water applied as rainfall and irrigation (kg ha<sup>-1</sup> mm<sup>-1</sup>). This is a measure of the water use efficiency of a crop.
2.	**crop per person** is the crop production in an area divided by the number of people in that area (kg/person). This is a useful measurement of how well an area might feed it’s people. For urban areas, the number is not as useful a measure, as there are more people with fewer farms. It does not account for imported food or food that is transported from one area to another.

These outputs are organized by Location (Admin levels 0 and 1), by crop (maize, teff, sorghum, and wheat), and by variable.

